Dominic Balli -

When hearing about Dominic Balli's story, I think about 2 Corinthians 12:9-10.
"But he said to me, 'My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.' Therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that Christ’s power may rest on me. 10 That is why, for Christ’s sake, I delight in weaknesses, in insults, in hardships, in persecutions, in difficulties. For when I am weak, then I am strong."
Similarly, Balli attributes strengths of his musical gifts to God, as they were once his weaknesses. Balli says, “Music is a gift. And I feel like the Creator gave it to me. I mean, I went most of my life being one hundred percent musically inept, and totally unable to sing, and then one day it was like, Here. This is yours. Use it.’”[1] It is refreshing that he see's himself more as a conduit for the Holy Spirit to pour through rather than boasting and taking pride in his music.


[1]"Dominic Balli" - Retrieved 2018, January 1 from http://www.dominicballi.com/bio/




George Nooks -

"Nooks started his musical career in the youth choir at his church, and moved on to perform at school concerts and talent shows. After first recording professionally in 1974, Nooks first found success performing under the name Prince Mohamed, as a deejay on discomix tracks for producer Joe Gibbs."[1] 

He continued to have a successful career in the Reggae Market for the next 27 years. However, Nooks began to record primarily gospel material after death of his grandmother in 2001. [1] He has seen much success in the gospel reggae genre as well.
"His 2016 album Ride Out Your Storm reached number 4 on the Billboard Reggae Albums chart, and number 22 on the Gospel chart.
Nooks also works as a producer, and has run his own Total Records label since the early 1990s."[1]


[1]"George Nooks" (2017, October 11) Retrieved 2018, January 4 from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Nooks





Tashai Houston - 


"Tashai Houston was born March 15, 1981 in the district of Alexandria in the parish of St. Ann, Jamaica. She grew up in a nearby district called Philadelphia and attended the Philadelphia Church of God. Her passion and gift for singing landed her the position of local star and the church praise and worship leader."[1]

“I came from humble beginnings but I know God called me to be a music minister and his call comes with provision so I waited patiently on Jehovah Jireh and now the fullness of time has come” were the psalmist’s remarks to this new recording stage of her life."[1]

"Tashai says her philosophy is based on 1 Corinthians 13:1." [1] 

1 Corinthians 13: 
If I speak in the tongues[a] of men or of angels, but do not have love, I am only a resounding gong or a clanging cymbal. 2 If I have the gift of prophecy and can fathom all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have a faith that can move mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing. 3 If I give all I possess to the poor and give over my body to hardship that I may boast,[b] but do not have love, I gain nothing.

4 Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud. 5 It does not dishonor others, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs. 6 Love does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth. 7 It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres.

8 Love never fails. But where there are prophecies, they will cease; where there are tongues, they will be stilled; where there is knowledge, it will pass away. 9 For we know in part and we prophesy in part, 10 but when completeness comes, what is in part disappears. 11 When I was a child, I talked like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I put the ways of childhood behind me. 12 For now we see only a reflection as in a mirror; then we shall see face to face. Now I know in part; then I shall know fully, even as I am fully known.

13 And now these three remain: faith, hope and love. But the greatest of these is love.

Tashai believes "love is the key to unlock every closed door. Perfect love represents God because God is love and a heart of love is necessary for a minister to be truly effective." [1]



[1]"BIO ABOUT US"  Retrieved 2018, January 4 http://www.tashainmusic.com/about





Sam Cooke and the Soul Stirrers - 

"The Soul Stirrers are an American gospel music group, whose career spans over eighty years. The group was a pioneer in the development of the quartet style of gospel, and a major influence of soul music, doo wop, and motown sound, some of the secular music that owed much to gospel.

The group was formed by Roy Crain, who had launched his first quartet, which sang in a jubilee style, in 1926 in Trinity, Texas. In the early 1930s, after Crain moved to Houston, he joined an existing group on the condition that it change its name to "the Soul Stirrers." The name "Soul Stirrers" yields from the description of one of Roy Crain's earlier quartets as "soul-stirring". Among the members of that group was R. (Rebert) H. Harris, who soon became its musical leader. The Soul Stirrers formed as a Jubilee quartet, transformed their sound, influenced by many hard gospel singers such as Mahalia Jackson and Sister Rosetta Tharpe.

Rebert Harris, also from Trinity, Texas, brought several changes to the Soul Stirrers that affected gospel quartet singing generally. He used a falsetto style that had its antecedents in African music, but which was new to the popular jubilee singing style of the time. He pioneered the "swing lead", in which two singers would share the job of leading the song, allowing virtuoso singers to increase the emotional intensity of the song as the lead passed between them without disturbing the four part harmony. That innovation led the Soul Stirrers, while still called a quartet, to acquire five members.

The Soul Stirrers made other important changes in those years: ad-libbing lyrics, singing in delayed time, and repeating words in the background as both a rhythmic and emotional support for the lead singers. The Soul Stirrers along with other quartet performers, dropped the "flatfooted" style of jubilee quartets before them and expanded their repertoire from spirituals and traditional hymns to the newer gospel compositions. The group also loosened the rigid arrangements that jubilee quartets had favored to permit individual singers within the group more space for individual development.

The Soul Stirrers signed with Specialty Records, where they recorded a number of tracks, including "By and By" and "In that Awful Hour". Harris quit in late 1950 to form a new group, citing dissatisfaction with what he viewed as the crookedness of the business and immoral behaviour by musicians he saw on the "Gospel Highway" touring circuit. He was briefly replaced on lead by Paul Foster, then by Sam Cooke. Cooke joined the group at the age of nineteen served as lead vocalist from 1950 to 1956.[1]

One of the early singles with Cooke was "Jesus Gave Me Water", a major hit that brought the Soul Stirrers acclaim. Thomas L. Breuster was replaced by Bob King and, briefly, Julius Cheeks. When Cooke left in 1957 to pursue a career in pop music, the Soul Stirrers' preeminence in gospel was essentially over, though a brief period of success with Johnnie Taylor sustained the group for a time. Various line-ups continued touring and recording throughout the last half of the century to a small and devoted following. The group — and all of its members — was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1989 as one of rock's Early Influences, and into the Vocal Group Hall of Fame in 2000."

"The Soul Stirrers" 2018, January 2 Retrieved 2018, January 4 http://www.tashaihoustonmusic.com/about  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Soul_Stirrers



The Blind Boys of Alabama - 


'The Blind Boys first rose to fame in the segregated south with their thrilling vocal harmonies and roof-raising live show. They released their debut single, "I Can See Everybody’s Mother But Mine," on the iconic Veejay label in 1948, launching a 70-year recording career that would see them rack up five GRAMMY Awards (plus one for Lifetime Achievement), enter the Gospel Music Hall of Fame, collaborate with everyone from Mavis Staples and Stevie Wonder to Prince and Lou Reed, and perform on the world's most prestigious stages. It would be difficult to overstate the Blind Boys' influence on their contemporaries and the generations that came after. The New York Times said that they "came to epitomize what is known as jubilee singing, a livelier breed of gospel music," adding that "they made it zestier still by adding jazz and blues idioms and turning up the volume, creating a sound…like the rock 'n' roll that grew out of it." TIME Magazine raved that "they're always hunting for - and finding - the perfect note or harmony that lifts an old tune into the sublime," while The Washington Post praised their "soul-stirring harmonies" and "range of cross-genre collaborations," and The New Yorker simply called them "legendary."'

"When the Blind Boys started out, we weren't even thinking about all these accolades and all that stuff," founding member Jimmy Carter told NPR. "We just wanted to get out and sing gospel and tell the world about gospel music." Mission accomplished!"


"The band's original lineup is down to just two remaining survivors: long-time group leader Clarence Fountain and current leader Jimmy Carter. Both men were born in Alabama during the Great Depression, and while Carter is still active and regularly touring with the group, Fountain's health precludes him from traveling much these days, though he does appear on the album.

"These men were both raised as blind, African American males in the Deep South during the Jim Crow years, and they were sent to a school where the expectation for them was to one day make brooms or mops for a living," says Blind Boys manager Charles Driebe. "But they've transcended all that."
 

Given the age of the surviving original members, it's not hard to hear the subtext of the album 'Almost Home'. In lines like "my work is done and I'm finally going home to see my maker," they acknowledge that they're closer to the end than the beginning. But rather than resting on their laurels, the band is adding a new chapter to their legacy, creating some of the finest work of their career as they solidify their place not just in musical history, but in the very fabric of American culture. The original members may be 'Almost Home,' but it's clear the Blind Boys intend to keep on singing, spreading peace, joy, and love until the very last note.



"THE BLIND BOYS OF ALABAMA" Retrieved 2018, January 4 http://www.blindboys.com/about/



The O.C. Supertones -
"The O. C. Supertones are a Christian ska group that uses music to share the love of Jesus. Filled with fun songs to put a smile on your face and a dance in your step, their live show is packed with energy and a deep connection to your soul. The band’s message is to encourage the Body of Christ and to reach non-believers.  The 6 current members all serve at their local churches and 4 of them are full time Pastors.

The Supertones have produced 10 albums combining over 1 million units sold, more than 20 national and world tours, and have seen tens of thousands come to Christ… All for God’s Glory!"



"THE BAND" Retrieved 2018, January 4 https://www.ocsupertones.com/



Wayne Stoddart - 

switch image to one from
https://www.reverbnation.com/waynestoddart



"Wayne Stoddart, as a young adult, lived in the inner-city community of Eastern Kingston (Mountain View) and existed amidst the harsh culture of the Kingston ghetto. Despite his surroundings, Stoddart was able to sustain his identity as a man of God. The experiences of his environment have led to lyrics of comfort, encouragement and upliftment for the oppressed and depressed seeking The Way. The title track COMMITTED on Stoddart debut solo album is a prime example of the root of the songwriter’s message. While living at Mountain View, Wayne Stoddart assembled at the local New Testament Church of God where he served as Musical Director. Wayne Stoddart formed the group Dynamis from the local members of the church and produced the album FULFILLMENT as a church project. In March 1996 the group was nominated Best Performing Gospel Band by the Jamaica Music Awards (JAMI) for the FULFILLMENT album.

Wayne Stoddart debut solo album COMMITTED was nominated Best New Gospel Reggae album and won the award for Most Distinguish Male Vocal at the New York Caribbean Gospel Awards (NYCGA) 2002. In 2003 the album was also nominated Best Male Gospel Reggae Album by the Marlin Gospel Awards. The Inspirational Reggae artist released the album LOVE CONVICTIONS in 2008. The album went on to win three awards at the NYCGA: Best Male Vocal, Gospel Reggae Album of the Year and Best Produced Gospel Reggae Album. Wayne releases his third solo album IT IS WRITTEN in 2015. The album contains 13 original songs and one dub; all lyrics written by Wayne Stoddart. “I like to think of my music as Righteous Rockers…music is my expression of life and lessons learned along the way… again the idea is to encourage, inspire and uplift everyone that comes within earshot of these tunes”, the songwriter passionately expressed.

The gospel reggae phenomenon continues to feed the people with the bread of life through his musical collection of The Word. Wayne continues to “Move on inna Jesus name”: healing the wounded, comforting the brokenhearted, setting the captives free and tearing down the strongholds of the enemy, through the power of the Most High God."


"Biography" Retrieved 2018, January 5 https://www.sonicbids.com/band/wayne-stoddart/




DJ Nicholas -

"Jamaican born Gospel Reggae Artiste Nicholas Eccleston, more popularly known as DJ Nicholas has grown to become one of the leading Caribbean Gospel Artist.  He was born on October 29, 1980 in Kingston; however, in his teenage years searching for truth, he became a marijuana smoker, very rebellious and immersed in the Rastafarian Religion. His life was shortly after changed by a scripture from Acts 4:12. He is now a passionate follower of Jesus Christ.
 
Nicholas performs in the USA where he now resides; he performed with Deitrick Haddon on BET Celebration of Gospel 2016. He has been interviewed on TBN for TBN Salsa In the Mix. He has also performed in the UK, Canada and over 25 countries in the Caribbean region and continues to regularly visit them. He has shared stages with TD Jakes, Shirley Caesar, Kirk Franklin, Donnie McClurkin, Tye Tribette, Erica Campbell, and Tamela Mann among others.

Nicholas is featured on Grammy nominated singer Deitrick Haddon’s album titled Masterpiece, on Todd Dulaney's upcoming "The 2nd Encounter" album and on Papa San’s One Blood Album; the album features Lecrae, Da Truth, Fred Hammond and Israel Haughton among others. Some of Nicholas’ popular songs are Holy Ghost Gym, Holy Ghost Church, Things Already Better, Naa Bow and Cut It Off to name a few."[1]

[1] "Biography" Retrieved 2018, January 5 https://www.djnicholas.net/



Avion Blackman - 


"Avion Claudette Trudy Henrietta Blackman (born January 30, 1976) is a reggae recording artist, and the wife of Christafari front man Mark Mohr. She has produced three solo albums as well as providing vocals and bass guitar for Christafari since 2003.[1]"


As a child she led a humble and simple life. From the age of four to twenty-eight she lived "in the forest, 7 miles from the village of Piparo, where she was home-schooled along with her 24 brothers and sisters. The family lived a lifestyle of simplicity, with no electricity or plumbing, and growing most of what they ate off the land they were living on.[4]"

"Christafari
In 2002, while he was teaching a seminar in Trinidad, Blackman met Christafari founder, Mark Mohr and 18 months later they were married in Los Angeles.[5] By this point Blackman had begun to play bass and provide vocals for the band, lending her voice to the songs "Hiding Place" and "My Sustenance" for the album Gravity. She has been an integral part of the band since then, involved with all their subsequent albums and tours.[3]

Solo career 
Onyinye 
It was during the recording of the Christafari children's album Reggae Sunday School, that the idea of a solo album was first pitched by husband Mark and despite her initial reluctance, Blackman's debut album Onyinye was released later that year (2005).[5][6] The album was released to critical acclaim and at the 2006 Marlin awards the album was given top honors, being declared the album of the year, as well as winning in the Contemporary Female Vocal Performance category, (for the song "Marvelous Beauty").[7] She was the first non-Jamaican to receive the award.[3]

Sweet life 
In 2008, the follow up album, Sweet Life was released, showing a move towards more reggae roots.[8] The song "Yeshua" was a favorite and to this day Christafari will often close their concerts with this song.[1][3] She picked up another Marlin award for the song "Sweet Life".

Third World girl 
In 2011 work began on Blackman's third album, with a month-long trip to Hawaii and an expressed wish to "write and record a new song every day".[1] Initially recording was going to be demo sessions only but instead turned into a full recording session and at the end of the month a full album had been created and even a music video for the title track had been filmed amongst the jungles and waterfalls of Hawaii.[5] Themes on the album include healing and relationships."


"Avion Blackman" Retrieved 2018, January 5 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avion_Blackman



Papa San -

"Tyrone Thompson, (born July 1, 1967)[1][2][3] better known as Papa San, is a Jamaican reggae, dancehall and gospel singer. Born in 1967 in Spanish Town,[4] he was raised by his Rastafarian grandmother and began performing with sound systems (including Black Scorpio and Creation) in the late 1970s.[5] He won the Tastee Talent contest in 1981.[5] He went on to become one of the major dancehall artists of the late 1980s and 1990s, with hits such as "Maddy Maddy Cry".[6][7]

His brother and fellow deejay Dirtsman was murdered in 1993 in the three years that followed his sister was killed in a motorcycle accident, his cousin was killed by police, and he himself had legal problems after being arrested on weapons charges.[6] He turned to Christianity in 1997.[4] This is also reflected in his style, as he started off as a true dancehall deejay, later adopting traits of Gospel and Christian music.[2][3][8][9]

Papa San sponsors a concert known as Papa San and Friends, to raise funds for orphanages in rural Jamaica. Since becoming a Christian he has continued to produce his roots reggae sound, but with the message of Christ to the beat instead of his previously popular secular music.

He has six children and lives in Weston, Florida with five of them and his wife, Debbie Thompson. In 2011, Papa San and his wife, having been ordained ministers of the Gospel, were launched into pastoral ministry and started Our Fathers Kingdom International Ministries.

In 2013, Papa San featured on Church Clothes, Vol 2 by Christian Hip Hop artist Lecrae, with Andy Mineo, on the song "The Fever". His album One Blood topped the Billboard Reggae Albums Chart in February 2014.[10]"


"Papa San" Retrieved 2018, January 5 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Papa_San





Carlene Davis
https://scontent-iad3-1.xx.fbcdn.net/v/t1.0-9/17103581_1300310953389360_520118694708831399_n.jpg?oh=cb758814853cfa7354b4387a929cb39f&oe=5AEDC418

"Carlene Davis (born c.1953) is a Jamaican gospel and reggae singer active since the 1970s. Successful since the early 1980s as a reggae artist, she survived cancer in the mid-1990s, after which she dedicated her career to gospel music. She has released over ten albums.

Davis was born in Colonels Ridge, Clarendon Parish and moved to England with her parents at the age of fourteen, where she began to perform professionally a year later, playing guitar in an all-girl band before joining the pop trio Toreadores.[2] She then moved to Toronto, Ontario, Canada where she lived for eight years.[3] Davis initially found fame as a reggae singer. She recorded her debut single in Toronto, a version of "Leaving on a Jet Plane",[2] and had a local hit with a version of Jimmy Cliff's "The Harder They Come".[4]

In 1996 she was diagnosed with breast cancer and her Christian faith became a more important part of her life.[12] She returned to recording gospel music, which she had first recorded in the early 1990s. She released the album Vessel in 1998, and in 2000 her single "This Island Needs Jesus" was a major hit in several Caribbean countries.[7] She became involved in cancer charity work, with half of the proceeds from her 2003 album Author and Finisher going to the Jamaica Cancer Society.[13] Davis has continued to perform regularly, including appearances at the Redbones Blues Revue,[14] Fun in the Son,[15] and Live On The Waterfront.[16]

In 2000, Davis was named Minister of music for The Family Church on the Rock in Kingston.[7] In 2006 she gained a doctorate in pastoral counselling from the Trinity Theological Seminary in South Florida.[6]

By the mid-2000s Davis had her own recording studio, Judah Recording, and the Glory Music productions record label, run with her husband Tommy Cowan.[10]

In 2014 Davis released the album Dripping Blood, and announced that 25 percent of royalties would go to US-based charity Samaritan's Purse to fund their work fighting Ebola in Liberia.[17] The album reached number 3 on the Billboard Reggae Albums chart.[18]"

(2017, May 31) "Carlene Davis" Retrieved 4 January 2018 from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carlene_Davis






Donna Marie

https://www.discogs.com/Donna-Marie-Now-Is-The-Time/release/6671857

"Donna Marie was born in the UK, although her formative years were spent in Jamaica. It was while living in Jamaica that she demonstrated her talent singing lead in her local Pentecostal Church choir. After leaving the choir she joined a band performing lead and backing vocals." As a soloist she had Gospel Reggae songs ... featured on the Album ...

-"Artist Biography by AllMusic". Retrieved from https://www.allmusic.com/artist/donna-marie-mn0000988293/biography





Owen Uriah
https://fr.payplay.fm/161848300-owen-uriah-photo.jpg


"There was a time when Gospel artiste Owen Uriah thought God could never use a man like him. He began his musical journey as a DJ with local sound systems in his home town of Birmingham, England. Owen progressed into a more creative mode as a drummer, but found he had a vocal ability.  He decided to use his vocals to lead his band URIAH, which he formed in the mid 1980’s.

Owen was very successful as a secular artist, fast becoming one of the top artistes on the Club Scene and was in great demand. He toured the country performing classic Soul, RnB and Reggae. Owen came to the point in his life when he knew he had to dedicate the gift that God had given him to the work of the Ministry.

Owen gave his heart to the Lord in 1985, after attending a Nicky Cruz Rally at the Birmingham Town Hall in  England. He then joined the Hockley Pentecostal Church where he was Baptised. He is currently a member of the New Testament Church in Edgebaston, Birmingham in England.

He has been involved in the Community for almost 20 years, working with disadvantaged and talented youths. He is proactive in church events participating in Outreach Events throughout the U.K. He also works as a mentor in local schools and for the Youth Offending Service, in an effort to help wayward youngsters receive guidance. He is a Martial Arts Instructor, and England Karate Judge. His Karate School has produced English and National Champions, which  involves children of mixed abilities and Special Needs.

Owen is confident about his calling to the Ministry, and his position in the Body of Christ.

He says, “ My calling is to minister restoration and reconciliation, and to inform people that God has a purpose for Everyone.  Every individual is precious to God, and every Christian must take their  position in the Body of Christ, and I aim to encourage individuals to find their position and walk the path that is set before them.”

Owen has an anointing to write songs that people from all walks of life can relate to, using familiar rhythms, songs of Praise, truth and reality, conveying the issues of life that we all face.

He directs the listener to Jesus Christ, the Author and Finisher of our Faith.

Owen is committed to the message that is promoted in his music, and conveys an uncompromising message about his Lord and Saviour, Jesus Christ.

MINISTRY
In 1992 Owen began singing at National and International Evangelistic Crusades and Major Christian conferences. He has toured the U.S.A, Jamaica and Europe.

He is humble and very approachable, and seeks to be a blessing wherever he goes. His ability to communicate and encourage has enabled him to be effective in the Ministries.

He has attended Bible College in Birmingham, England, and has also studied in the U.S.A.

He also has a Teaching Ministry. He has a grounded approach to his Ministry as he encourages others to adopt the motto: “KEEP IT REAL.”

COMMUNITY SERVICES.
Owen is also actively involved in prison ministry in conjunction with the United Evangelical Project visiting prisons throughout the U.K.

He has been a fundraiser for the National Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Children for over six years. He has organised major events, raising funds for numerous charitable bodies.

He also works with the Youth Offending Service as a Community Panel member, administering Referral Orders to young offenders in liaison with Birmingham Juvenile Court in England.

He is a Registered Learning Mentor, with youth at local schools throughout Birmingham, England.

He is a Black Belt Karate Instructor with the English Karate Governing Body. His Karate School has achieved Gold, Silver and Bronze medals in National and International Events.

He was also an International Association Coach and England Karate Judge.

His Ministry has been with the Africa Women’s Ministry, Church Building in South Africa and India, Romania Support Group, Mothers Union in England, St Basil’s Homeless Charity, Salvation Army contributing to Birmingham’s Homeless."


"Owen Uriah Bio". Retrieved from "http://dubroom.org/starrecordings/owen_uriah_biography.htm"
